Generally speaking, the computer has had a significant impact on the world economy in several ways. The computer is employed in a wide range of industries, including commerce, management, the entertainment industry, education, and problem-solving. Its significance has earned it recognition on a global scale. It plays an important part in management systems. The management of patient information in health care nowadays necessitates a procedure and the preservation of records from various hospital departments. All these records are very vital information needed by the organization for efficient and effective operation. A sophisticated, well-coordinated information system called Online Patient Information Management System (OPIMS) was created to manage patient data in hospitals and aid in the administrative process. Patient information is essential to healthcare facilities for better management and administrative process efficiency. The key aim of OPIMS is to upgrade and efficiently streamline the flow of data from the hospital to decision-making for patient planning and care. The risk of theft, fire, employee error, and even content modification exists when data, whether it be medical, personal, financial, or legally required, is recorded on paper. A computerized PIMS will be crucial because there are numerous difficulties in maintaining a lot of data on paper, especially since there is frequently no backup for the data, access to data can be time-consuming if a file search is necessary, accuracy in the recording of key data is required, and the administrator cannot manage all that is written on the enormous amount of paper to be used. Thus, having a computerized patient information management system is crucial for health organizations like hospitals and clinics. As an example, the Mathari Hospital in Nairobi uses manual processes to collect data and manage patient information, which occasionally results in patient file loss and poorly organized card units housing patient files due to a large number of patients' files. The personnel and overall management of Mathari Hospital in Nairobi will gain a lot from the implementation and use of a computerized patient information management system.
1.1	EXISTING SYSTEM
The current system of managing patient information at Mathari Hospital in Nairobi, which serves as the case study for this research work, is manually done. Data are inscribed on several piece of papers, then moved to various intended departments; human made errors are possibly done because the system is paper-based, and retrieving files takes time since it is manually located, some of which were even lost, leading to difficulty in find such information. When a new patient comes to this hospital for care, he is given a paper card (the patient card has a file number on it), and a file is opened for him with all the patient's information (i.e. information like the name, age, phone number, place of origin, the residence of the patient, past treatments done with reports if any, etc). The patient must bring the patient card with him whenever he enters the hospital. It will take time and be laborious to manually search for his file after presenting this card. Older people who visit the hospital must also show their identification cards and wait while their records are located before receiving care. What if their files are lost or damaged? The patients won't receive care or may need to pay for another file if they want to get it. This is quite expensive and frustrating. As a result, the hospital's current system for managing patient information is incredibly ineffective. The requirement analysis revealed the need for automation and computerization of their patient information management system, which would save paperwork, speed up access to patient information, make patient information storage simple and durable, comply with global technological trends, etc.

1.2	STATEMENT OF THE PROBLEM
There have been several annoyances as a result of the lack of a computer-based patient information management system to better serve patients and medical personnel. Important data concerning patients' medical histories have been lost as a result of this. This is primarily due to the Mathari Hospital's current patient information management system's weakness—its excessive dependence on paper-based work. Written paper files consumes a lot of office space and result in sluggish patient information recording, processing, and retrieval. The current approach for managing patient data does not provide adequate security and dependable storage for patient health data. Due to inadequate information management, it is challenging for several departments to access and share information on patients. 
To receive medical care, it has been noticed that patients must wait in line for several hours at each hospital department, starting with getting a new hospital folder or retrieving an old one prior to seeing a doctor, then going for a lab test to the laboratory, followed by going to the dispensary for the prescribed medications, and so on. The majority of patients waste the entire day at the hospital due to the laborious and long protocols needed in handling them. In order for the Patients to be among the first group to see the doctor, they are subjected to leave their homes very early in the morning. Otherwise, they risk wasting the entire day by not paying attention
In addition, the doctor's memory and preferred medication affect the diagnosis and prescription. Their minds are regularly stuffed with information on various illnesses, their symptoms, problems, medications that can be used to treat them, etc. Of which some are strikingly similar. It's challenging for him to retain and comprehend all of this knowledge for his clinical practice. This makes it possible that a precise diagnosis and prescription may not always be made.
The majority of our hospitals do a terrible job of maintaining and retrieving precise patient records. Records included in files may be incomplete or misplaced. As a result, finding reliable and timely information or data is difficult.
1.3	PROPOSED SYSTEM
Online Patient Information Management System (OPIMS) is the suggested system, and it is both electronic and web-based. The information used in this system is digitalized, meaning that all patient data is kept in computer systems and is accessible online both inside and outside of the hospital (only to authorized users). The projected system's use extends beyond the walls of Mathari Hospital in Nairobi. According to the proposed system, each new patient who enters the hospital is given an electronic card number (e-card), which they will use to access and control their information system. This electronic card acts as a digital version of the patient's file in a computer system.
After their files have been converted to digital format, former patients are also given e-card numbers. By offering online access, e-card relieves patients from taking their information with them. The patient can experience certain issues while traveling and without his treatment records. If so, he can see any doctor in that city and present his medical history by accessing the online card with simply his card number and password. Thus, he is spared from having to undergo all the tests again and can receive therapy right away. The doctors can read reports and visit patient details even while they are sitting at home thanks to online access to the program. 
The system is secure since users can only alter data after being properly authenticated. It represents a significant improvement over the current arduous and ineffective patient information management method. Additionally, errors are virtually eliminated. Access to the necessary information is made simple and quick because of the system's automation and computerization. The system is very user-friendly since it gives the logged-in user the proper messages to help them.
1.6 PURPOSE OF THE STUDY
The aim of this project is to develop a computerized information management system for a patient that will address the aforementioned issue, boost record-keeping accuracy, and improve customer service.
1.7 OBJECTIVE OF THE STUDY

1.7.1 GENERAL OBJECTIVE
This study purposes in developing an online information system for the management of patient information in Mathari Hospital, Nairobi.
1.7.2 SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES
1. To inspect the existing measures employed in our hospitals concerning patient admission, diagnosis, and treatment.
2. To test if the system works efficiently
3. To improve on the current system in use, by creating a competent practical patient billing software, aimed at an accuracy, fast and relies on patient information system.
4. To develop a system and database that can store patient information in a secure place
5. To provide encryption to patient information by allowing only authorized person to access it.
1.8 JUSTIFICATION OF THE STUDY
It is impossible to overstate the significance of the suggested system. The suggested system will improve hospital work's efficacy and efficiency. The digitalization of patient records allows for long-term storage, future access, and research. In the current information technology era, the deployment of an online patient information management system (OPIMS) will make a substantial contribution.
1.9 SCOPE OF THE STUDY
The proposed system can only be used for the management of patient information at Mathari Hospital, Nairobi, and is not intended for use elsewhere or for any other purpose. This information may include the patient's name, residential address, phone number, next of kin, registration or card number, state of origin, previous experiences with the illness and any treatments or medications administered, reactions to those treatments, and the entirety of the patient's medical history. This hospital offers a wide range of services to patients, such as daily patient care, patient admission, in-patient, and outpatient record keeping, etc.
